README.md, before:

# Deploying application in Kubernetes using Jenkins

[![Build Status](https://jenkins.example.com/buildStatus/icon?job=Your-Job-Name)](https://jenkins.example.com/job/Your-Job-Name/)

This project includes example demo for deploying an app in kubernetes using Jenkins

<!-- ## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Configure and Install Jenkins](#Configure-and-Install-Jenkins)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license) -->

## Overview

A concise description of what this Jenkins project is about, its purpose, and its benefits. You can include any relevant context here.

## Prerequisites
1. Kubernetes cluster (K3D used in this project)
2. Helm installed in your machine
3. Docker desktop installed in your machine

## Install Helm

In this lab, we will use Helm to install Jenkins .  Helm
is a package manager that makes it easy to configure and deploy Kubernetes
applications.  Once we have Jenkins installed, we'll be able to set up our
CI/CD pipleline.

1. Install helm

    ```shell
    choco install kubernetes-helm
    ```


2. Pull official helm repository into a folder.

    ```shell
    helm pull jenkins/jenkins
    ```
3. jenkins-4.5.0.tgz will be downloaded and extract this downloaded file to get Jenkins folder in which it   contains the helm chart
4. Ensure Helm is properly installed by running the following command. 

    ```shell
    helm version
    ```
## Modify the helm chart
1. Inorder to run the docker commands and kubectl commands, we need to modify the helm chart to include additional two containers: One container with docker:dind image to run docker commands and another with bitnami/kubectl image to run kubectl commands. Modify the helm chart values by adding the following to values.yaml file:

  ```shell
  additionalContainers: 
    - sideContainerName: dind
      image: docker
      tag: dind
      command: dockerd-entrypoint.sh
      args: "--host=unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
      privileged: true
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 0.5Gi
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 2Gi
    - sideContainerName: kubectl
      image: bitnami/kubectl
      tag: latest
      args: "infinity"
      command: "sleep"
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 0.5Gi
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 2Gi
     ```
## Modify the helm chart

Commit message:

Add steps for service account creation

README.md, after:

# Deploying application in Kubernetes using Jenkins

[![Build Status](https://jenkins.example.com/buildStatus/icon?job=Your-Job-Name)](https://jenkins.example.com/job/Your-Job-Name/)

This project includes example demo for deploying an app in kubernetes using Jenkins

<!-- ## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Configure and Install Jenkins](#Configure-and-Install-Jenkins)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license) -->

## Overview

A concise description of what this Jenkins project is about, its purpose, and its benefits. You can include any relevant context here.

## Prerequisites
1. Kubernetes cluster (K3D used in this project)
2. Helm installed in your machine
3. Docker desktop installed in your machine

## Install Helm

In this lab, we will use Helm to install Jenkins .  Helm
is a package manager that makes it easy to configure and deploy Kubernetes
applications.  Once we have Jenkins installed, we'll be able to set up our
CI/CD pipleline.

1. Install helm

    ```shell
    choco install kubernetes-helm
    ```


2. Pull official helm repository into a folder.

    ```shell
    helm pull jenkins/jenkins
    ```
3. jenkins-4.5.0.tgz will be downloaded and extract this downloaded file to get Jenkins folder in which it   contains the helm chart
4. Ensure Helm is properly installed by running the following command. 

    ```shell
    helm version
    ```
## Modify the helm chart

Inorder to run the docker commands and kubectl commands, we need to modify the helm chart to include additional two containers: One container with docker:dind image to run docker commands and another with bitnami/kubectl image to run kubectl commands. Modify the helm chart values by adding the following to values.yaml file:

  ```shell
  additionalContainers: 
    - sideContainerName: dind
      image: docker
      tag: dind
      command: dockerd-entrypoint.sh
      args: "--host=unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
      privileged: true
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 0.5Gi
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 2Gi
    - sideContainerName: kubectl
      image: bitnami/kubectl
      tag: latest
      args: "infinity"
      command: "sleep"
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 0.5Gi
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 2Gi
  ```
## Create a Service Account with permissions
In order to access the kubernetes cluster from the jenkins pod, a service account is needed. Modify the helm chart values.yaml by adding the following in the serviceAccountAgent section:
  ```shell
  serviceAccountAgent:
  create: true
  name: testsc   #service account name
  annotations: {}
  extraLabels: {}
  imagePullSecretName:
  ```
